[DOCS] Revise "Try GX" for GX 1.0 (#9897)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/core/introduction/try_gx.md

---
title: Try Great Expectations
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import GxData from '../_core_components/_data.jsx';
import PrereqPythonInstalled from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_python_installation.md';
import ReleaseVersionBox from '../../components/versions/_gx_version_code_box.mdx'
import GxCloudAdvert from '/static/docs/_static_components/_gx_cloud_advert.md'

> Follow this guide to install {GxData.product_name}, connect to sample data, build your first Expectation, validate the sample data, and review the Validation Results.  This is an ideal place to start if you're new to GX and would like to experiment with some basic features of GX to see what it has to offer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're new to {GxData.product_name}, start here to learn how to connect to sample data, build an Expectation, validate sample data, and review Validation Results. This is an ideal place to start if you're new to GX and want to experiment with features and see what it offers.
```

## Prerequisites

- <PrereqPythonInstalled/>

## Setup

> {GxData.product_name} is a Python library and can be installed using Python's included `pip` tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{GxData.product_name} is a Python library you can install with the Python `pip` tool.
```

> More comprehensive guidance on setting up a Python environment, installing GX, and installing additional dependencies for working with specific data formats and storage environments is available in the [Set up a GX environment](/core/installation_and_setup/install_gx.md) section of the docs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more comprehensive guidance on setting up a Python environment, installing {GxData.product_name}, and installing additional dependencies for specific data formats and storage environments, see [Set up a GX environment](/core/installation_and_setup/install_gx.md). 
```

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: I'm not clear why you're using a tab here. If there isn't a second tab, remove it.

<TabItem value="procedure" label="Procedure">

> 1. Install the GX 1.0 library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following code to install the {GxData.product_name} library:
```

>    The following command will install GX in your Python environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  
```

   ```bash title="Terminal input"
   pip install great_expectations
   ```

>    Since this guide provides sample `.csv` data to work with, no additional dependencies need installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
```

> 2. Verify that GX installed successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify that {GxData.product_name} installed successfully.
```
How? What does a user need to do?

Author: Looks like this is a functional duplicate of 3, probably from when I was copying a portion of the procedure from the "Install GX" guide.  I'll remove the whole thing and re-number these steps.

>    Once the {GxData.product_name} library has been installed, you can verify that you are using the correct version with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the following code to verify the {GxData.product_name} version:
```
Why does a user need to do this?

   ```bash title="Terminal input"
   great_expectations --version
   ```

>    The output you receive if GX was successfully installed will be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The following output appears when {GxData.product_name} is successfully installed:
```

   <ReleaseVersionBox/>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> ## Try GX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test features and functionality
```

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="procedure" label="Procedure">

> 1. Import the required modules from the {GxData.product_name} library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following code in a Python interpreter, IDE, or script to import the required modules from the {GxData.product_name} library:
```

>    From a Python interpreter, IDE, or script run the following import statements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
```

   ```python title="Python input" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/introduction/try_gx.py imports"
   ```
   

>    The `great_expectations` module is the root of the GX library and contains shortcuts and convenience methods for starting a GX project in a Python session.

Reviewer: These statements should follow the first procedure step as they provide context BEFORE the code is run.

   The `expectations` module contains all the Expectation classes that are provided by the GX library.

> 2. Create a temporary Data Context and connect to the provided sample data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the following code to create a temporary Data Context and connect to sample data:
```

>    A Data Context can be thought of as a GX project.  In Python, it provides the API for interacting with many common GX objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In Python, a Data Context provides the API for interacting with GX objects.
```

Author: Slightly tweaked the suggestion.  I think "most" is an important distinction here since we're having them import the `expectations` module to get to Expectation classes, rather than doing so through the Data Context.

>    In the following code, a Data Context is initialized and then used to read the contents of a `.csv` file into a Batch of sample data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A Data Context is initialized and then used to read the contents of a `.csv` file into a Batch of sample data. You'll use this sample data to test your Expectations.
```
This is a step result and should follow the code example.

   ```python title="Python input" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/introduction/try_gx.py set up"
   ```

>    The sample data that has been retrieved will be used to test the Expectations that are created later in this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
```

> 3. Create an Expectation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the following code to create an Expectation:
```

>    Expectations are fundamental components of GX.  They allow you to explicitly define the state that your data should conform to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Expectations are a fundamental component of GX.  They allow you to define the state to which your data should conform explicitly.
   
   The sample data you're using is taxi trip record data. With this data, you can make certain assumptions. For example, the passenger count shouldn't be zero because at least one passenger needs to be present.  Additionally, a taxi can accommodate a maximum of six passengers.
   
   An Expectation is created using the `passenger_count` column with values from `1` to `6`.
```

The last sentence is a step result and should follow the code example.

   The provided sample data is a table of paid taxicab rides. Knowing that lets you assume some things about what the content of that data should look like.  For example, it wouldn't make sense for the passenger count to be zero, since at least one passenger needs to be present to purchase the ride.  Additionally, the taxicabs in question should not have room to seat more than six passengers.

   The following code defines an Expectation that the contents of the column `passenger_count` in the provided data consist of a value ranging from `1` to `6`: 

   ```python title="Python input" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/introduction/try_gx.py create an expectation"
   ```

> 4. Validate the sample data against your Expectation and view the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the following code to validate the sample data against your Expectation and view the results:
```

>    Once an Expectation has been defined it can be applied to a Batch of data to see how well that data conforms to the Expectation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  
```

>    In the following code, the previously defined Expectation is validated against the Batch of sample data and the Validation Results are printed for review:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
```

   ```python title="Python input" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/introduction/try_gx.py validate and view results"
   ```

>    In this example, the sample data does conform to the Expectation that was defined.  The printed Validation Results will look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The sample data does not conform to the defined Expectation and the following Validation Results are returned:
```

   ```python title="Python output" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/introduction/try_gx.py output1"
   ```

> 5. Create an Expectation that will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run the following code to create an Expectation that fails because it assumes that a taxi can seat a maximum of three passengers:
```

>    Not all Expectations will pass successfully when validated.  If the data does not match the state described in an Expectation, the Expectation will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  
```

>    A failed Expectation lets you know that you have an issue to look into: it could be something wrong with the data itself, such as missing or incorrect values.  Or it could be a misunderstanding about the data, in which case the Expectation itself should be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A failed Expectation lets you know there is something wrong with the data, such as missing or incorrect values, or there is a misunderstanding about the data.
```

>    This code creates an Expectation that will fail because it follows the incorrect assumption that taxicabs can only seat a maximum of three passengers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
```

   ```python title="Python input" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/introduction/try_gx.py validate and view failed results"
   ```

>    You can see that the results of a failed Expectation are very different, and include metrics to help you assess the severity of the issue you've uncovered:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the following example, the results of the failed Expectation include metrics to help you assess the severity of the issue:
```

   ```python title="Python output" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/introduction/try_gx.py failed output"
   ```

>    By default, only a portion of the failed values and record indexes will be included in the Validation Results to prevent the report from being too bloated to easily review.  However, the failed counts and percentages will correspond to all the failed records in the validated data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To reduce the size of the report and make it easier to review, only a portion of the failed values and record indexes are included in the Validation Results.  The failed counts and percentages correspond to the failed records in the validated data.
```

> 6. Optional.  Experiment with other Expectations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Optional. Go to the [Expectations Gallery](https://greatexpectations.io/expectations) and experiment with other Expectations.
```

>    The {GxData.product_name} library comes with numerous Expectations you can apply to your data.  You can browse the available Expectations through the [Expectations Gallery](https://greatexpectations.io/expectations).  Each entry in the Expectations Gallery links to a page with comprehensive information about the Expectation in question.  You can reference these pages to find details on how the Expectation functions and what parameters need to be provided when implementing it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
```

>    The Expectations Gallery also includes search and filter functionality to facilitate finding appropriate Expectations for your use case.  For instance, this guide uses pandas as the backend for reading data.  Therefore, if you want to try additional Expectations you should [filter the Expectation Gallery to find Expectations that support pandas](https://greatexpectations.io/expectations/?viewType=Summary&filterType=Backend+support&showFilters=true&subFilterValues=pandas).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sample_code" label="Sample code">

```python title="Full example script" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/introduction/try_gx.py full example script"
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Next steps

> You can learn more about GX by browsing through [Community resources](/core/introduction/community_resources.md) such as the GX Discourse forum, public Slack channel, and GitHub repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about {GxData.product_name}, see [Community resources](/core/introduction/community_resources.md).
```

### Try GX Cloud

<GxCloudAdvert/>

> ### Dive in with GX and Python

Reviewer: Remove the heading and move this content so it follows the introductory statement.
